Solid Earth Teaching and Research Environment

Thorsten Becker - thwbecker@post.harvard.edu - 10/2024

SEATREE is a modular and user-friendly software to facilitate using
solid Earth research tools in the classroom and for interdisciplinary,
scientific collaboration.

We use python wrappers and make use of modern software design
concepts, while remaining compatible with traditional scientific
coding. Our goals are to provide a fully contained, yet transparent
package that lets users operate in an easy, graphically supported
"black box" mode, while also allowing to look under the hood. In the
long run, we envision SEATREE to contribute to new ways of sharing
scientific research, and making (numerical) experiments truly
reproducible again.

Reference:

Milner, K., Becker, T. W., Boschi, L., Sain, J., Schorlemmer, D. and
H. Waterhouse: The Solid Earth Research and Teaching Environment: a
new software framework to share research tools in the classroom and
across disciplines. Eos Trans. AGU, 90, 12, 2009. â€‹
http://www-udc.ig.utexas.edu/external/becker/preprints/mbbssw08.pdf

For download of a complete SEATREE install using VirtualBox, see

http://www-udc.ig.utexas.edu/external/becker/seatree/wiki/download.html

SEATREE is module based, and the current version includes tools for
computing 2-D mantle (thermal) convection, 3-D body wave mantle
seismic tomography, 3-D spherical mantle flow (a driver for the HC
tool), for inverting for Earth structure by means of surface wave,
phase velocity tomography, and a two-dimensional synthetic tomography
teaching module.

A rudimentary module for earthquake location inversions is also
available. The main software design consists of transparent python
wrappers that drive the modules, including a GMT plotting tool, a
VTK/Paraview 3-D visualization interface, and a graphical user
interface.

SEATREE is freely available under the GNU license.

If you want to use SEATREE in a classroom setting, we might be able to
offer you some installation support and always welcome your
feedback. Also, if you like to add your own module to SEATREE, please
let us know; we might be able to provide some assistance.

This directory contains source codes and scripts for a range of solid
Earth research tools within the SEATREE framework whose web site can
be found at

	       http://www-udc.ig.utexas.edu/external/becker/seatree/

For installation, see:

	 http://www-udc.ig.utexas.edu/external/becker/seatree/wiki/download.html

See the file COPYRIGHT for license.


Partial support was provided through NSF-CAREER.